(air whooshing)
So real quick review,
we have very basic yes or no are they signed in function,
then we have permission-based functions
that check if somebody has a specific permission
as well as we can add additional
yes or no functions to that.
And at the very end of that
and probably the ones that you'll be using most often
are rule-based functions.
So rule based functions are logical functions
that can be used for list access,
so are different types that we have products users,
orders, cart items, all of that stuff
and they allow us to either
return a Boolean yes or no similar to this,
but also a set of filters which can limit
the number of items that they can update.
So I'll show you an example that we have here.
Let's take a look at our product.ts
and you'll see here we have our product and...
let's go through it, create, okay.
Yes. Create is going to be available
to literally anyone who assigned into the application.
You should be able to create, all right?
Read.
Yeah. Everybody is going to be able to read them
and we're gonna come back to that in a second
because we actually wanna filter that
just for published products or available products,
but the one I wanna focus on right now
is actually update and delete.
So who should be able to update and delete a product?
Well, me, the administrator should be able to
and that's why we have canUpdateProducts.
If we take a look at our fields here
we have a permission called, canManageProducts right here.
So that person should be able to manage a product,
they should be able to update the text of it,
the price, the things like that,
but then that person should also be able to delete it.
But people who create a product can own it,
should be able to update and delete their own products
without having an elevated privilege of managing products.
So now we're in sort of a two step process,
either you have canManagedProduct role
or you are the owner of the item.
So what we'll do, is we'll go down here
and we'll make some rules.
So export const rules is equal to curly bracket
and let's put a little comment here right now.
Rules can return a Boolean yes or no,
or a filter which limits which products they can access
they can crud, right?
Depends on whether we put it into the list of create,
read, update or delete right here.
So we'll go.
First thing is, is we wanna make one called
canManageProducts,
and again, that's going to take in the session.
We'll destructure it with curly brackets there.
So we'll first gonna check is, do they have the permission
of canManageProducts?
And so this going to be a little bit confusing
because a rule is a combination
and then this is just a straight permission.
If you wanted to name it something different you can,
but I in my head like the think of permissions
as singular permissions and rules as multiples of them
then second thing we're gonna check is
if not, do they own this item?
So once here we'll say,
if and we'll use our permission,
permissions.canManageProducts
and you can pass it our session,
so if that returns true, then we return true here.
Otherwise do they own it?
We will return and this is gonna be returning a wear filter
that we've been using in the graph QL API.
So we say, return where the user ID
is equal to these session.item ID
and it's give me a red underline
'cause I did not type this.
So that's listAccessArgs, there we go.
Now what this will do is again, I'll say it one more time.
You're probably getting sick of me.
Do they have this permission?
If so they're probably an admin
or somebody that has given them permission
to do so then yes, they can access that.
Otherwise, do they own this item?
So we return the wear filter here
and if this where filter does not find anything,
it will return a false value
and we will not be able to do things.
So we'll go back to our product.ts
and go to update and delete here,
and we'll go ahead and say, rules.canManageProducts
and those are the rules that we have there.
Now we can restart our backend here
and I'm gonna go to the products,
Oh, little error here.
Rules is not, Oh, I forgot to import it.
Silly Wes.
So import rules from access,
and that will give it a start.
So the first thing that we can try
and this can be done via the app or via the Keystone UI
is if you try to edit one of these things,
so if I put an X on the end and save changes,
then of course the other thing we need to do is that,
if somebody owns the item
they should be able to edit it as well.
So we need to modify our product
and our user just really quickly because we do not,
if we take a look at our user.ts
we do not have a relationship
between the products and the user right now.
We've just been assuming that the administrator
can take care of all of it.
So we have to modify a little,
let's start in our product.ts here
and we'll add a new field at the bottom, right under price.
We'll call it user,
and that is going to be a relationship.
The reference is going to be a user.products
with an S the default value of when a product is created,
this is gonna be the important part is that
we have to programmatically do it based on the user session.
So what we'll do is we'll take the default value
and do a little arrow function right here,
we can destructure the context
and we'll return an object that says
connect the ID with the context.session.item ID.
So what that does here is when a product is created,
the reason why we didn't do this previously is 'cause
we didn't lock down the ability to create a product
just unless you were assigned in until the last video.
But now what we're doing is when a product is created,
make a relationship to user.products
and then the default value is going to be
the currently signed in user, which is exactly what we want
and we return an object with a connect property on it
which connects to that the idea
of the currently signed in user.
Then we'll flip over to the user and do the opposite.
So we'll go to the user, right?
Under role, we'll say products,
and that is a relationship or the ref is going to be
user. Oh, no product.user,
many is going to be true
'cause a user can have many products
and I believe that is it.
So let's go and kill the backend started up again.
And now you see there is a user,
we can assign that one to me,
save changes, good,
and then I'm gonna go to the products
and let's take a look at our users real quick.
Let's assign one of these products to test
that is tests@example.com
and you can actually show what their products are
right from here.
That's the beauty of two-way relationship.
So they own, let's say ultra boost
and they also own the
black hole.
Go ahead and save it.
Okay. So now if I sign in as test@example.com,
so I'll go to a local host 3000,
try this to sign in,
then go to products
and what was the product?
Let's try and edit the black hole first.
So go do black hole,
put an X on it, save, good.
And then let's try to edit our product that they do not own,
let's see Eddie Hondo put an X on the end, save product.
Here we go.
Failed update, you do not have access to this resource.
So the user still is able to read the resource from here
and you can also get a little bit more nitty gritty
and you could also hide it from the Keystone admin UI
or you could hide the entire backend UI
just unless you had a specific permission
called KenSci backend
but that now gives us the ability to update items
we do own or update all the items
if you are a someone who has the permission.
So let's try once more.
Let's go back to that user
and let's go here
and let's select from the role.
Let's make them an admin and go here
and then try save it again
and it does save successfully.
I'm gonna take that admin role off,
save changes and I wouldn't be able to do it again.
Now, last thing we wanna do is
if you go to products and you edit one of your products,
you see we have this status right here,
draft available or unavailable.
So right now we're not filtering by any of that.
And even when we're doing our queries,
I told you don't worry about it just yet.
But now what we can do
is we can actually put that filter
directly into the access control.
So people who have access to read all the products
will be able to see them all,
but people who only have access
or who don't have access to that
will only see products that are available.
So let's go back into our access.ts here
and we'll go down here,
we'll make a new one called canReadProducts
and we'll destructure the session
and return listAccessArgs
and then from that, we'll say
if the permissions got canManageProducts
past the session,
then it'll return true which is they can read everything.
Otherwise they should only see available products
and I'll say based on the status field.
And then what we'll do from there,
is we'll just return an object
where the status is available
and what that will do is that will bind
as a wear clause in the graph, QL API
and only show you products that have available.
So now watch, like I haven't restarted just yet,
but if I go to products or I go to the front end,
I see them all.
But now when I restart the sucker,
I should only see products that have a status of available.
So I'm seeing 12 products.
Now, if I change this one to draft and save and refresh,
I still see 12 product.
It didn't work because I forgot I wrote the function
but it didn't implement it. (laughs)
So we had to go back to our product
and we'll go back up to read,
right now we're saying, you can read it
if you're signed in, but in our case
we wanna show that to everybody, but only available ones.
So we'll change that to rules., what do we call it?
CanReadProducts.
Now, so restart it,
and whenever somebody tries to read it,
it's going to say, "All right, well, hold on.
Do you have the managed product session?
Otherwise, if that's true
then return true and you can read everything.
Otherwise, we're gonna give you a subset of the products
only ones that have a status of available."
And here we go look, 11 products here,
and there should be 12 here.
There we go, 12 there.
So now if I maybe edit a couple more
and turn them over to draft,
(mouse clicking)
and I refresh this
I only see a subset versus admin sees a whole bunch.
So that is pretty cool that when I saw that,
I was like, "Oh, that's amazing."
Like you took the filtering of what the users should see
and you didn't do it at a query level.
You did it at even higher level, which is an access level.
So those are rule-based functions.
Now we have a bit of work ahead of us
is where we need to go through
every single one of these products right here
and go through the create, read, update, delete,
and think about whether
people should be able to do things or not.